Hello and welcome to this final world on the cloud in previous Statoil I walked you through the process
of getting started with my best recommendation of all these platforms which is Amazon Web Services.
And now as promised I would like to explain why AWOS is to me the best choice to build run and train
your machinery e-mails on the cloud.
Well first of all it's because he too has great benefits.
Recently they changed their policy from Per howre billing to per second billing.
So basically what this means is that before if you used it for one minute while you would pay for an
hour and now if you use it for one minute while you will pay for 60 seconds.
So the per second billing is a new great benefit of easy to then a second benefit is the flexibility
when using an easy to instance you can change basically the power of your virtual server.
You know you can change the power of your virtual machine because indeed you can change the memory.
You know you can add some gigabytes if you need to.
You know if you're a model or machinery model is requesting more resources more computing resources.
You can also change the number of this abuse and you can change some other you know components of a
virtual machine that are responsible for its power.
OK so this flexibility is amazing because you don't have to start with a super powerful virtual machine
if you're actually not sure of how compute intensive you know how compute demanding your machine earning
or amoral will be.
And so you know you can just start with a certain number of VCP use a certain amount of gigabytes and
then if it's not enough.
Thanks to this flexibility benefit from easy to you can just increase the power by increasing the number
of visible use or the amount of gigabyte or other components of the power.
So that's a huge benefit which makes it very practical.
All right then another great benefit is actually the cost.
You know Amazon for being the cheapest place where you can get some books or some products.
Well that's the same for cloud platforms getting a virtual machine to run your models is actually really
cheap.
I'll give you an example.
If you connect to a virtual machine with two VCP use and four gigabytes of memory Well right now at
the time I'm speaking it will cost you five cents a dollar per hour.
So that's quite cheap right.
And to VCP use and four gigabytes of memory is already quite powerful.
You will probably need more especially if you're doing some AI but you can definitely do something with
it.
And that's what we for five dollars cents per hour.
And then remember thanks to its flexibility you can increase the power.
And so if you need to increase the power to let's say for VCP use and 16 gigabytes Well it will cost
you around between 18 to 20 cents of dollars per hour which is still very cheap.
And here we have a much more powerful computer.
And then eventually that final benefit I must highlight are the ABS systems elastic Blug store systems
which are used by you see two instances and these abs systems allow you to actually keep your data even
if you're not using your easy to instance so it's not like you know you have to keep your data in the
server and pay for as long as you keep it because then even if it's only a couple of cents per hour.
Well if you have to pay to keep your data it could be costly.
But thanks to this elastic bookstore systems you will not pay the regular price of the two instance
that you will pay $10 cents per gigabyte per month.
And so if you want to do that there is something you must absolutely understand.
It's the difference between stopping an instance and terminating an instance.
So if you stop the instance you will keep your data in the system and you will pay $10 cents per gigabyte
per month.
But if you terminate your instance while you will pay nothing but your data will be gone it will no
longer be your data on the instance you're connected to the system.
So make sure to get this if you want to keep your data on the ABS system in case you need to retrain
your machinery model or your amoral Well when you're not doing the training.
Make sure to stop the instance instead of terminating it.
And if you start the instance you will just pay $10 cents per you buy per month and you will keep your
data.
And then once you're absolutely done with the training you won't do some further training at least in
this instance.
Well you can terminate it.
You will lose your data.
The data on the ABS system will be removed and you won't be paying anymore.
So make sure you get this.
This is a great benefit but it's of course important to be aware of this however and that will be my
final recommendation or explanation on this cloud essential tool if you're not sure of what to do between
the two.
Just in your instance or terminating your instance well you have another solution.
The solution is called as three.
And this is one other amazing cloud product.
So S3 is like taking a big snapshot of your data which you can transfer later on to another easy to
instance with another ABS system and therefore it's not like it's totally removed.
It will be removed from your current ABS system but then you can transfer it thanks to the snapshot
to another CBS.
And what is the cost of doing that.
Well that's half the price of the solution.
You know keeping your data on the ABS system which was 10 cents Brighid you buy per month.
We're here doing this.
This alternatve solution it's going to be five cents per gigabytes per month which can be a great solution
for you.
All right so here we go.
That's all the great benefits of AWOS.
That's my favorite.
If you want to know about my second favorite That would be paper space because it is user friendly it
is quite innovative.
And then is mostly focused on machinery and data science.
So that's my second favorite but it's great if you can check out all of them because maybe you'll prefer
one different from AWOS or paper space.
Again that depends on your constraint your goal and the type of problem solving the twain The previous
to toile I insisted on giving you the top five.
So there we go.
That's it for the cloud in the next article.
You'll find the bonus which is PTF report it will help you even more.
Set up your AWOS instance.
I just remind that you don't have to use the cloud.
If you have a powerful computer you can do it on your computer especially if it has a GP you and that
allows you to run and train some powerful machinery or Emile's on your local computer.
So you have a lot of options.
But now at least thanks to this introductory course you know the options.
And you can know which one suits best your situation.
And on that note I'll wish you a great Dave science journey.
I hope you like this cause I hope this was useful for you and I'm highly confident this will help you
make a successful entrance in this fantastic world of data science.